CHANGE LOG

"""Main changes made in version 2.0.3"""

Corrected spelling error "Peplaying" to "Replaying".

Added custom_reader setting. The default state is custom_reader = 0 which will only read SL timestamps.

Added an experimental custom timestamp format for defining a delay between when one paragraph ends and the next is read aloud. This is useful for adding timed narration to videos or using SLTTS as a general text reader where a predefined pause is required between paragraphs, chapters of a book, bullet points, news, or description.

[hh:mm:ss.sss]

Example: [00:00:01.100] followed by the contents of the paragraph to be spoken after the predefined duration or by a new line. The resolution is to 0.1s while reading live and to 0.024s when recording.

Future integration with chat clients other than SL is under development.

Added a pause button and the ability to pause and resume reading chat logs. This is useful if you don’t want to miss any conversation or roleplay while afk or while working.

After log reading is unpaused each line of chat will be read in the order it was added to the chat log while paused, or while it catches up when being read, and will be spoken in time relative to the delay between the original timestamps until no more unspoken lines are left in the chat log, after which normal log reading will resume. If Quick Play is selected then the SL timestamps will be ignored and each line will be spoken without delay until log reading catches up with the chat being added to the log.

--Socrates Dionysus, 8 August 2026


"""Main changes made in version 2.0.2"""

Bug fix: The name of the audio recording file could change while recording if Record Audio is stopped and restarted while text is being spoken asynchronously. The file name variable has therefore now been isolated in each thread so that if the file name changes globally recording will still continue using the old file name until the file is closed and the updated file name filters through.

Added a setting to the config file to allow a directory to store tts audio recordings in to be chosen.

record_directory = Recordings

The file path can either be global or relative to the directory that SLTTS-OBS is running from.

A GUI method to choose the record directory may be added in a later version.

--Socrates Dionysus, 31 July 2026


"""Main changes made in version 2.0.1"""

Added a slider to allow the rough selection of lines of chat to be played back from a chat log and to show progress when Replay Chat is set.

When a chat log has finished being replayed the programme will automatically switch to normal chat log reading mode.

Minor fix to the spam filters to allow isolated '&' and '%' symbols to be spoken.

--Socrates Dionysus, 29 July 2026


"""Main changes made in version 2.0.0-beta3"""

Moved the record audio button to the a new row on the top button bar.

Added a replay chat button to allow an existing chat log to be read aloud from start to finish.

Added a quick play button to override waiting between timestamps in the chat log when replay chat is selected.

Added a file selector dialogue to choose which chat log to read.

--Socrates Dionysus, 27 July 2026


"""Main changes made in version 2.0.0-beta2"""

Added the ability to record the chat which is spoken to an .mp3 file located in the same directory where SLTTS-OBS is located.

New config settings added:
record = 0 or 1 (sets default record mode on startup)
verbose = 0 or 1 (toggles diagnostic code)

If replay_chat is set to 1 in the config file and Record Audio is active the selected chat log will be converted to speech at high speed and recorded instantly without being spoken. Otherwise all chat will be spoken in real time after being converted to speech irrespective of whether it is being recorded or not.

--Socrates Dionysus, 20 July 2026


"""Main changes made in version 2.0.0-beta1"""

Text to speech conversion is now carried it in multiple asynchronous threads to speed up conversion and reduce the delate between chat being spoken.

Long paragraphs are broken up into two smaller segments by sentence boundaries and converted to speech simultaneously so that the first part is spoken while the second part is converting. There is no noticeable delay between each segment being spoken.

New config settings added:
concurrent_edge_tts_threads = 3 or values from 1 to 12
replay_chat = 0 or 1 (allows playback of existing chat logs)
follow_timestamps = 1 or 0 (setting to 1 will speak back the log while waiting the for interval between chats in the timestamps to expire)

--Socrates Dionysus, 11 July 2026